---
layout: post
title:  "Notes from CAV 2022"
date:   2022-09-17 12:40:00 -0500
categories: Events
published:  true
---

Notes from attending FLoC 2022 as a student volunteer at Haifa, Israel.
There is no notes after the third day due to a combination of jet lag, exhaustion, and mild sickness.


# Neural Network Verification

## Shared Certificates for Neural Network Verification

+ Even two input spaces (perturbation on a single input) can be very different,
  at later hidden layer the transformed output spaces may still contain each other.

  - Classification output partition is very coarse comparing with input space.

+ Check subset relation between transformed output spaces at any hidden layer

+ Template is a set in a hidden layer that potentially is a super set of some input spaces after transformation.
  and the output space of template satisfies the robustness spec.
  
  - Heuristic to choose templates.

+ Improve efficiency for nn verification


## Example Guided Synthesis of Linear Approximations for Neural Network Verification

+ Compute linear overapproximations for different nonlinear neuron activation functions (e.g., sigmoid)

+ Accumulate overapproximations becomes overly conservative

+ Minimize volume between linear overapproximation and true function

+ Offline synthesis (need to understand details)

+ upshift to address violation to address unsound linear approximations

  - violation is a point of true function larger/above than the line defining approximations.
  - find upper bound on the violation using nonlinear optimization encoding the true function.

  
## Trainify: A CEGAR-Driven Training and Verification Framework for Verifiable Deep Reinforcement Learning 

+ partition the continuous state space to finite abstract states and train neural network on abstract states as input

  - Seems to be a straightforward partition (grid based)

+ Convert system with NN to Kripke structure

  - Construct an explicit state transition system
  - Get action from nn using an abstract state as input and calculate next abstract state by evaluating concrete state evolution
  - Property directed reduction/simplification on abstract transition systems
  - Need more detail?
  
+ Verify against ACTL (temporal logic) using existing tools

+ Refinement process?

  - This might be the most interesting part?

+ Small examples with nn controllers



## Affine Loop Invariant Generation via Matrix Algebra

+ Infer loop invariants for piecewise affine transition functions as the loop body
+ Encode proof of inductive step into checking Farka's lemma holds

  - (exists linear combination of guard and inv on prestate x) /\ loop body => the guard and inv on poststate x'
  - "exists linear combination of guard and inv on prestate x" is a nonlinear constraints
  
+ Two methods to synthesize invariants based on eigenvalue and matrix inverse

  - Looks simple enough to understand
  - Applications in finding our AAPs?
  

## Data-driven Numerical Invariant Synthesis with Automatic Generation of Attributes

+ discover attributes (feature variables) instead of enumerate all 

    - Use convex shapes as "separator"
    - Learn disjunction of convex constraints
    - "Join-max" separator
    
 + What is the maximal guarantee for the synthesized invariants?



# Logic Lounge: Autonomous systems

## Responsibility-Sensitive Safety (RSS) analysis for multi-agent (related to Sungwoo's work)

+ Driving Policy

+ Assume
+ "Safety-net"
  - Proper response within *unsafe* states (safe but close to bad states)
+ Guarantee
  - If all agents apply proper response, collision avoidance is still guaranteed
    under *unsafe* states

+ Duty of care - legal obligation
  - Safety-usefulness tradeoff


# Aug. 8, Monday

+ Koopman operator linearization
  - https://github.com/EthanJamesLew/AutoKoopman

+ STLmc
  - Model checking for Signal Temporal Logic over what?
  - Robustness check
    + Is it able to model stability, ISS, ultimately bounded property
  - Barrier certificates

+ UCLID5
  - SyGus with Oracle?
    Synthesize contract for perception/state estimation functions.
  - add assumption over input output pairs

    + f(x) = y, positive sample
    + f(x) != y, negative sample
    + I(x) ==> I(x'), inductive example

  - Satisfiability algorithm
  - Synthesis algorithm?


## CAV award 2022

+ **Determinism**
+ **Time and function are (reasonably) independent**

Real time with stream input
+ Software level "Virtually Synchronous"
  - Timed Triggered Architecture~(TTA) - single rate [HK et al 90]
    + Proven correct in PVS
  - Physically asynchronous Logically synchronous~(PALS) [JM et al 09]
  - Lingua Franca~(LF) reactor model [EL et al 2019]

Problem in synchronous
When deadline/delay is larger than the period (cycle time).
IF we change the function to address delay, the function and time are now *dependent*.

Kahn Process Networks~(KPN)!!!
+ Read until all inputs are ready in FIFO queue.
+ Asynchronous Write

+ KPN is deterministic under arbitrary interleaving/fair scheduling
+ independent of computation/communication delays!!!

With well typed KPN, FIFO queue for read can be bounded.
Timed KPN -- KPN with timed constraints
Still deterministic functions rom timed input to timed output streams.

node type -> a step function with input and output typed with *segments of stream*
connector type -> constraints on matching segment length from producer node to consumer node.

type checking -> bounded memory and deadlock free
